Now that we've got the entire story let's start to work on the actual implementation of this animation.
The first thing we're going to do is change some of the dimensions of the SPG and the circle elements.
Right now if I zoom all the way out to 100 percent that timer that we have right here is really small.
So I want to basically double the size of the timer just sort of fills up the screen a little bit more
nicely so to get started I'm going to find my SPG element.
I'm going to change the height to 400 the width to 400.
I'm going to change the radius as well.
We're going to use a radius of 190.
We're going to leave the C X or AND SEE Y at two hundred and two hundred.
But we are going to have to come back and adjust those and just a little bit you'll see why very shortly
we will leave the fill of transparent stroke.
I'm going to leave as blue I'm going to slightly adjust these stroke with make it just a little bit
thicker at 15.
And then finally I'm going to take out the dash array any dash offset.
We're going to calculate both those values on the fly using the radius because otherwise like I just
mentioned if we ever decide to change the radius again chances are we might not remember how DASH rate
is calculated.
Remember it's supposed to be the perimeter value so we're going to calculate that value on the fly using
the radius just so we don't have to remember.
Oh yeah.
Two times pi times the radius to figure this out so in total we're gonna double check here.
We should have our c x see y Bill.
Stroke stroke width in transform.
One last thing.
I apologize here on rotate.
We need to adjust that to two hundred two hundred to specify the new center point okay.
Let's save this now and see how we're doing okay.
Well that looks pretty good definitely a little bit better sized.
We're going to make sure that the text input only certain pause buttons eventually show up inside there
militias work on the animation to get started they're not going to go back over to our index start j
ust file and down by our timer we're going to eventually write a bunch of different code inside of here
to work with the timer and make sure that every time we get a tick we can get clean up a little bit
or really kind of change some of the different properties of that circle element so to get started at
the very top with all these other queries selectors I'm going to add in a selector to find that circle
element I'll say const circle is document dot query selector circle and after that we will immediately
read off the value of art or the radius and we'll use it to calculate the perimeter defined the radius
of the circle we can use circle dot get attributes and then we put in the name of the attribute that
we want to find in this case are so to calculate the perimeter it will be the radius times 2 times math
dot pi and notice how pyrite here is all capitals then going to assign that to a variable that I will
call perimeter then immediately after that we're going to set the dash array value on the circle equal
to the perimeter remember that is what is going to get us the full big circle like you see right here
it's also a circle set attribute.
We're going to try to set stroke dash dash array and we're going to set it equal to the perimeter okay.
That looks pretty good.
It's now the next thing we're going to do is to make sure that every single time our timer ticks we're
going to once again set an attribute.
But this time we're going to set our stroke dash offset property which is what's going to give us that
white space up here on the starting on the top edge and go around in the clockwise direction the inside
of on tick.
I'm going to delete that console log and I'll replace it with circle that set attribute.
We're going to set the stroke dash dash offset property and we need to provide a value right here that's
going to start off a zero and go more and more negative over time ideally by the time our entire loop
finishes.
So by the time the timer like ticks down to zero set or the stroke dash offset right here should be
equal to the perimeter.
That would be ideal so to make that happen right now we're going to declare a little variable right
above our timer that we'll call current offset and I'll initialize it at 0 then inside of the set attribute
or inside the on tick right here.
I'm going to say current offset
and during every tick we'll update the value of current offset.
We'll say Chernoff that will be current offset minus 50 and I apologize actually want that line to be
underneath these set attributes like so we'll set the attributes and then subtract a little bit off
the current offset okay.
So let's say this and see how we're doing right now.
It's to flip back over I'm gonna refresh.
I'm going to hit start and now we can see that things starting to tick down.
Well look at that.
It actually works.
Okay.
Well that's definitely not bad at all.
The only problem right now is that it is a very kind of like blocky animation because remember we are
only ticking once every seconds and then every seconds we are counting off by exactly 50.
So that's what's resulting this really blocky looking animation.
The other issue is that as soon as we start to get down to right there.
Well unfortunately because we are just subtracting 50 units every time we're going to eventually roll
around that entire property or that entire value of stroke dash offset.
So it's going to eventually get greater than the perimeter so definitely what we have right now works.
But there are a couple of things about it we need to improve.
So we need to make sure that the animation is a lot smoother.
We also need to make sure that rather than using this just negative 50 right here we should adjust by
a very even increment.
So essentially the number of ticks or it really our perimeter divided by the number of ticks.
So that by the time it gets down to zero or the timer gets down to zero we should end up right there
and not go over to the next edge so definitely still a little bit of work.
So let's get started on that in the next video.